[Music]
all right all right I got rickroll I'm
just messing with you we're gonna play
we're an upload the Mario Brothers tune
now okay so let's play the underworld
part now all right so let's talk about
our setup here real quick we're gonna
talk about playing tones on the Arduino
today let's talk about the speaker first
this speaker is a half watt 8 ohm
speaker that are robbed from another kit
that I bought at a garage sale this is
from a snap circuits kit and I just cut
the snaps off of this end and plugged
him into the new note here this speaker
has a built-in resistor and see it like
right here so I don't have to use a
resistor with it if you're using a piezo
buzzer or a or a speaker without a
resistor on it you'll want to use a 330
ohm resistor in line whenever you do
this so just keep that in mind if you
can get a half watt speaker as opposed
to a piezo buzzer it sounds so much
better the piezo buzzers just
ear-splitting it sounds like it's way
too high-pitched but anyway let's talk
about playing we're playing music just
now but we're gonna look at just playing
tones this is gonna be a quick one guys
so yeah this is the mario bros 2
that I have up right now but let's do a
new window and we're just gonna we're
gonna play some tones maybe you want to
have like a alert or something like that
if you want to get more into like
playing melodies and stuff you know
that's something you can you can do on
your on your own there just just search
it tone melody there's all kind of
information about that out there but as
far as playing a tone on Arduino its
built in to the standard library you
don't have to include any files or
anything and the usages tone and then
the pin and it does need to be a PWM pen
which we're on three right now so that
is a PWM pen comma and then you put the
frequency now the frequency range of the
human here is like 20 Hertz all the way
up to 20 kilohertz
but this speaker sounds like garbage all
the way down to 20 Hertz they can't
reproduce that sound it sounds okay at
it's about as low as I could go now you
have an option next you could put like a
duration as a third parameter or you can
leave it blank and it'll just keep on
playing until you tell it not to and
we'll do that now we'll do a delay of
1000 that's a second and then there's
another another command you probably
need to know and that is no tone and
notice that the T is capitalized and
then you just put the pin number and
then we'll do a delay of 1000 and we
should get a tone for a second and then
no tone for a second and then go back to
a tone for a second I'll verify my
little sketch here oh you know what I
need to plug the board back in its gonna
play Mario for a second until we upload
our little not attuned it's just gonna
play 200 Hertz
that's it and then you can hear kind of
the difference I'll copy this and we'll
we'll put in a few more frequencies here
[Music]
we'll go to 400 and we'll go to like a
thousand I could do a for loop for this
I guess right let's do a couple more you
can get an idea of what the different
frequencies will sound like see two
thousand and we'll do four thousand will
do ten thousand I wonder if we can
reproduce 20,000 I don't know it might
be hard to hear it on the phone let's
double-check the code all right looks
good let's upload it now
okay
I could hear 10,000 but I couldn't hear
20,000
but barely the 10,000 was like super
high it's trying to do the 20,000 but
the speaker just physically can't do it
either that or I can't hear it which is
also a possibility so
[Music]
okay I need to here upload a no tone
sketch just to make it shut up so that's
all we're gonna look at for today's
little video tone and no tone tomorrow
we are going to build our own little
rudimentary keyboard piano type keyboard
using some buttons and tone and we'll
try and make a little music that way so
thanks for watching guys I will see
y'all then I'll put links to the code
for the Mario tune if you want to go
check that out and upload it to your own
Arduino board so see y'all soon
take care